---
layout: post
title: "My Deadly Sin (One of them)"
date: 2017-06-14
excerpt: "Corny title? Yes. Something that deserves being talked about anyway? Also yes."
tags: [Strength, Weakness, Onus, Anger]
feature: 
comments: true

---

## Anger

Have you ever been so mad you can almost feel the heat coming off you? Have you been so angry that its as if steam is shooting out of your ears like some looney tunes character? Some people even say that their vision turns red. Anger is one of my two weaknesses. Not to say that there aren't more, only that this is a broad category that I understand well and can express decently using one word. It's a great roaring sensation. It's akin to a huge adrenaline rush, but instead of feeling uplifting and causing your hate to race it creates stillness. But this isn't the still of calm. It's a strangling. Your body/mind is doing everything it can to contain what's flowing through you. Iron bands around your arms, legs, and neck contraining your movement and breathing. Its the stillness in the moment when one can see an explosion but not yet feel its shockwave and scorched air. More than that it's a change in perspective. The hardest thing is that in a truly engraged moment you **want** to be mad. You want to let it all go and burn everything down. It's a great consuming thing that I know many people besides myself struggle with. 


## Or?

I'm going to make a distinction between rage and anger. Anger is a feeling that everyone at some point feels and has to deal with. It can be channeled and is a natural response to many of our daily struggles. Rage is a state of being. A failure to channel ones anger and let it turn inward and then explode out. One has been consumed and proceeds to consume everything around them. It does nothing but destroy and leaves one feeling empty afterwards. Rage is a failure to effectively respond to ones own feelings and theres not much to be said on the subject in my extremely unprofessional opinion. Anger though; anger we can talk about. What is it besides a primal dissatisfaction with the state of things? In most of my personal situations I think anger is simply one of Fear's many faces. 


## Knowing My Enemy is Me

Most of the times I'm angry if I look closely I'm simply afraid. I think men are taught to channel their fear this way. We aren't supposed to be afraid. So instead of being brave and letting the fear be and living anyway we fight it with anger. But we lose regardless. Just the other day I tried surfing for the first time. It pissed me off. I just couldn't get it. Not even the first steps. More than that I had completely no idea how to make my body do what it needed to. That's extremely unusual for me and challenged my idea that I have very good control over my body. It challenged my sense of self and made me feel inadequate. It made me scared. When you're angry at your partner, family, firends, or yourself take a split second. It's no coincidence that the people who know us the best and we're the most intimate with are the best at enraging us. Ask "Where is this coming from?" or "What am I so afraid of?". The answers may prove helpful. Or not, maybe you're just mad and don't care to explore further. It's up to you. But knowing thy enemy is important in any conflict. I find it's a lot easier to stop anger before it becomes rage if I know where it's coming from. The enemy in this case is you. Conveniently enough it's the only thing you have any decent amount of control over. 